so we begin this newsour with breaking
news as a second day of a Gaza ceasefire
talks has just ended in Doha mediators
from Qatar Egypt and the United States
have released a joint statement they say
the discussions were serious
constructive and conducted in a positive
atmosphere technical teams will work
over the coming days on the details of
implementation including arrangements
for the comprehensive humanitarian
components of the agreement and those
related to hostages and detainees senior
official officials will meet again in
Cairo before the end of next week in the
hopes of reaching an agreement on those
new terms while our correspondents are
following these developments across the
Middle East and the United States in a
moment we'll be hearing from Hamas salut
who's standing by in Aman Jordan for
Israeli reaction first though let's
bring in Muhammad jamun who's been
following the talks here in Doha
Muhammad can you walk us through where
we stand at this
hour so sirel we have seen a statement
that was released by the US qar and
Egypt at the conclusion of these two
days of ceasefire talks here in Doha now
I want to read just two portions of this
statement to try to walk you and our
viewers through where we are right now
one portion says that this proposal
Builds on the points of agreement
achieved over the past week and closes
the remaining gaps in a manner that
allows for the r rapid implementation of
the agreement another portion says that
the US with the support of the state of
qar and the Arab Republic of Egypt
presented to both parties a proposal
that narrows the gaps between the
parties and is consistent with the
principle set out by President Biden on
May 31st 2024 now the reason I wanted to
read those two portions is because the
language there suggests that the
mediators are far more optimistic today
than they had been leading into these
talks you're talking about brid ing the
gaps you're talking about narrowing the
gaps closing the gaps that's what these
talks were supposed to do when it comes
to trying to implement either the
framework agreement that had been
presented by US President Joe Biden at
the end of May and it had agreed to by
Hamas in early July or any type of
amended agreement that came thereafter
now there's still a lot of questions not
that many answers at this hour as you
said in your leadin to me there are
going to be technical teams working on
this over the course course of the next
week you're going to have another
meeting that's going to be taking place
in Cairo before the end of next week it
does seem right now that there is
momentum and that at the moment is a big
positive step considering where we were
just 24 hours ago when we weren't sure
what exactly was going on behind closed
doors now there's still so many issues
we don't know where they've landed on
right now we don't know what's going on
when it comes to proposals about who's
going to be in the Phil Philadelphia
Corridor we don't know what happens when
it comes to the number of Palestinian in
prisoners that might be released but the
language of this statement thus far
suggests that the mediators feel that
there is momentum right now and there is
much more optimism about the possibility
of closing those gaps in the days ahead
than there was just 24 hours ago zero
Muhammad jamj reporting from DHA thank
you very much for that let's go to Hamas
salut in the Jordanian capital and a
reminder that our team is there because
the Israeli government has banned
aljazera from reporting inside Israel so
hamda now that the mediators have spoken
everyone's going to be scrutinizing any
reactions from either Hamas or Israel is
there anything on the Israeli
side well some leaks and reports within
Israeli media are indicating that
there's been some progress made on key
issues but that there are still sticking
points that remain you have to remember
that Netanyahu has had a hardened stance
throughout the entire time negotiations
have been happening throughout the
entirety of this year and in fact since
the last ceasefire deal collapsed nearly
9 months ago there's been so much
pressure on Netanyahu from not just
internationally but domestically from
families of Israeli captives who've been
protesting his leadership nonstop and
you also have to remember that within
his own government there are members
within his Coalition who do not want to
see a deal at all and in fact US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
set to arrive in Israel on Sunday and
he'll will meet with Netanyahu on Monday
and some reports are indicating that
he's expected to be quite tough on
Netanyahu in order to try and really get
to the bottom of what the sticking
points need to be solved so that
everyone can enter into a ceasefire
agreement on the same term this is going
to be Lincoln's 10th visit to Israel
since the War Began and throughout these
visits he has been tough on Netanyahu he
has voiced his opposition and US
pressure to a lot of Israeli policy but
even though there was all of that
pressure from the United States
Netanyahu was still seemingly
unfazed Hamas salut reporting from the
Jordanian Capital Aman thank you very
much for that H and Alan fiser joins us
now from Washington DC Alan the US is
right in the middle of all of this first
of all the plan was presented by Biden
back in May and this statement that we
just got says that the the the bridging
proposals right the details they're
talking about that's been presented even
by the US are you Lear learning anything
new either out of the state department
or the White House anything at all on
your end at this
point well of course the thing to point
out here is there's no deal until
there's a deal so they can talk this up
as they have done in in Washington over
the last 10 weeks about how both sides
are close how they're small gaps how
they think they can Bridge it these
talks have been we are told
comprehensive and they've been intense
and they think there is the groundwork
for a deal but but there's still some
mechanisms to be put in place and that
means there is no deal till there's a
deal now the idea that Anthony blinkin
is going to the Middle East that was
talked about last weekend uh Christopher
Sheridan who is our white house uh
producer he's been speaking to people in
the last hour and he has heard from the
state department that while blinkin is
likely to head to the Middle East it's
still not a done deal and that would
suggest that he isn't going to go unless
it's almost certain that there are going
to be signatures on paper and that
there's going to be a ceasefire deal put
in place he won't fly to the region
unless he thinks it's going to happen he
may need to go to put last minute
pressure on both sides particularly the
Israelis because of course you'll
remember that when this was revealed way
back at at the end of May in June uh the
Americans were saying well Hamas should
accept this this is this is a good deal
and Hamas did and then the problem had
they had was that the Israelis didn't
and they've been putting pressure on
them for the last 10 weeks clearly
politically Joe Biden would like this as
a legacy issue that he managed to bring
some semblance of peace to the Middle
East but let me say one more time
there's no deal until there's a
deal that's alir is Alan fiser reporting
from Washington DC thank you very much
for that Alan